Topic: Site Reliability Engineering (SRE)

I was curious about Site Reliability Engineering when I heard about it at the beginning of class and then my curiosity was resurrected when I saw it listed as one of the options on the curiosity report instructions. I am so glad I did because I think that this may be a career I want to pursue that I don’t think I would have been open to.
To start my research, I did a basic Google search and saw a page made by AWS with answers to commonly asked questions about SREs. The AWS article discussed what an SRE is, common job responsibilities, and underlying principles. It was interesting how many things the article discussed overlapped with what we learned throughout the semester – like logging and metrics principles. 

A couple of new terms that kept popping up in my research were service-level agreements (SLAs), service-level indicators (SLIs), and service-level objectives (SLOs). It took me a couple of repetitions before I was able to remember what they were, and once I got them, I thought they were very useful. SLOs really stuck out to me among this bunch because they are an agreement between a company and their customers that this product the SREs are over will be up a certain percentage of the time (usually in the upper 90s). This is backed up by SLAs which outline the consequences of what happens if the company fails to uphold their SLOs and fix it in the allotted time.

The AWS overview was helpful, but I still felt there was more to learn so I returned to my Google search and found that Google had a whole website dedicated to SRE and so I did a little bit of digging. The first video I watched was a peek into what Google SREs do and I found that video to be super intimidating. There was talk from all of the SREs they interviewed about being on-call and having to respond to problems very quickly on platforms that they don’t create and may not understand all of the code base. That aspect of their job seemed exciting to the people in the role, but I found it to be very intimidating.

Despite this, I kept looking and stumbled upon the SRE Prodcast with is a podcast made by Google SREs about site reliability engineering: what it looks like, how to practice it, and many other interesting topics. I listened to 2 episodes from the first season and was very impressed with how they talk about the practice. The first episode I listened to discussed what it was like to be on-call and how rotations work at Google. I loved how Adrew Widdowson, who’s worked at Google for 15+ years, mentioned that they do tabletop roleplays for their teams to prepare to be on-call. The role plays could be based on things that have happened in the past, anticipating what may happen during a future release, and anything in between and they are designed to help new and old SREs learn from each other and be better prepared to address situations when they arise. While I may not be an SRE, it was comforting to realize that good companies will encourage meetings like this where teams can collaborate and work on solving problems before it’s crunch time.

The second episode I listened to went over the basics of SRE philosophy and covered a lot of the principles that I read about in the AWS article. One new thing that I learned from the guest speaker Jennifer Mace was that asking good questions is vital to being a good SRE. You need to be able to think of future problems and pose good questions to developers to help them understand the risks associated with what they want to produce. She shared 3 questions that she always asks dev teams who want to launch a project: 1. how does your thing break? 2. how do I know that it broke? And 3. what do I do when I know that it broke? I thought those questions reflected what we talked about during the last portion of the class. She also harped on toil a bit with the host of the podcast which aligned with one of my main takeaways from the class.

Overall, I feel like I know more about what is expected of SREs and why their role is important in different organizations. I also know that there is a lot more I could explore, and I would definitely continue listening to the prodcast made by Google to help expand my knowledge even further. I’d also be curious to look at what openings Google has in this area because they seem to have a lot of good infrastructure in place for onboarding and helping their members grow into the best developers they can be.
